---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #49'
author: ceberhardt
---

### [WebAssembly Load Times and Performance](https://blogs.unity3d.com/es/2018/09/17/webassembly-load-times-and-performance/)

<small>UNITY3D.COM</small>

The Unity framework has recently switched from asm.js to WebAssembly. This highly detailed blog post looks at the impact this has had on application load times and performance - with some fantastic results!

Most metrics show a significant improvement with the move to WebAssembly, although there is significant variability between browsers. This is a sign of the immaturity of the WebAssembly VM / runtime. I'd expect the performance metrics to converge over time. 

This blog also takes a look at the impact of LiftOff, the recently introduced tiered WebAssembly compiler within Google Chrome. With tiered compilation, your WebAssembly code is rapidly compiled with a non-optimised compiler in order to get it up and running quickly. The results are impressive, with load times reduced by a factor of x10.

### [An n-body simulator](https://novoselrok.github.io/nbody-wasm/)

<small>GITHUB.IO</small>

This fun little demo shows an n-body simulator, written in C++, and compiled to WebAssembly. It has a whole host of 'galactic' simulations!

### [An Interactive Go REPL in the Browser](https://gopry.rice.sh/)

<small>RICE.SH</small>

WebAssembly is intended to allow you to compile a wide range of languages so that they can run in the web. Once you can do this, you can compile their compiler / interpreters, allowing you to host the language itself within the browser. Hours of fun!

### And Finally

Like WebAssembly? like LEGO? Then why not [create the WebAssembly logo in LEGO](https://logo-bricks.com/)!