---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #39'
author: ceberhardt
---

### [A Real-World WebAssembly Benchmark](https://pspdfkit.com/blog/2018/a-real-world-webassembly-benchmark/)

<small>PSPDFKIT.COM</small>

The team at PSPDFKit were WebAssembly early-adopters, using the technology to provide PDF rendering within the browser. This involved taking 500,000 lines of C++ and compiling it to WebAssembly.

In this blog post the team have taken their PDF engine and turned it into a performance benchmark for the browser, allowing you to compare various performance characteristics. The results are fascinating - better still, they have been in discussion with the browser vendors to find out where and how they plan to improve performance. Great job!


### [Making calls to WebAssembly Fast](https://blog.benj.me/2018/07/04/mozilla-2018-faster-calls-and-anyref/)

<small>BENJ.ME</small>

One area of WebAssembly performance that hasn't gained much attention yet is the overhead of the JS / WASM interface boundary. Thankfully this has changed in FireFox, this post describes how they've significantly simplified their approach, removing a whole layer of C++ glue code, with impressive results.

Better still, the FireFox team have also come up with an initial implementation of reference types - the first step towards garbage collection. Exciting stuff!
 
### [Go 1.11 WebAssembly for Gophers](https://medium.zenika.com/go-1-11-webassembly-for-the-gophers-ae4bb8b1ee03)

<small>ZENIKA.ME</small>

WebAssembly support for Go is just a few weeks old. This blog post does a great job of describing how to write your first WebAssembly application with Go.

### [Hijacking WebAssembly Control Flow](https://www.fastly.com/blog/hijacking-control-flow-webassembly-program)

<small>FASTLY.COM</small>

Last week we saw a whole host of article about WebAssembly bringing back Spectre and Meltdown. Honestly, I think they were all tripe!

This is another security-focussed blog post, but a better one. It takes a look at how type confusion attacks can be compiled to WebAssembly.
