---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #55'
author: ceberhardt
---

### [WebAssembly Threads ready to try in Chrome 70](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/10/wasm-threads)

<small>GOOGLE.COM</small>

This is big news for WebAssembly, and represents significant progress on one fo the more important future features - threading. If you're a regular reader, you'll know that WebAssembly is not gaining support for spawning new threads, instead, this proposal adds share memory and atomics, allowing modules to operate in a threaded environment.

This post briefly describes the new threading feature, and provides a simple demo that shows pthreads (the standard threading API for C / C++) compiling to WebAssembly using Emscripten.
 
### [NectarJS - JavaScript God Mode](https://nectar-lang.com/)

<small>NECTAR-LANG.COM</small>

Compiling JavaScript to WebAssembly isn't straightforwards due to two issues (1) Garbage collection, and (2) the lack of static typing. This website demos a tool that seems to have solved these problems - although there doesn't appear to be any information on how they've done it? Intriguing!

### [Holochain Developer Preview Release](https://medium.com/holochain/holochain-developer-preview-release-56d0ede52da)

<small>MEDIUM.COM</small>

We all love a bit of WebAssembly on the blockchain! Much of the previous news has focussed on Ethereum (the second biggest network after bitcoin). This post looks at Holochain, which is a P2P alternative to blockchain, and describes why they migrated to Rust in order to compile to WebAssembly - allowing browser-based clients!

### And Finally ...

Should the WebAssembly Working Group consider [changing their name](https://twitter.com/coryzibell/status/1058015585022476288)?