---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #43'
author: ceberhardt
---

### [Grain - a Modern Web Staple](https://grain-lang.org/)

<small>GRAIN-LANG.ORG</small>

WebAssembly is bringing a whole host of languages to the web (C++, Rust, Go, C#, Java, and more ...), but it is also bringing completely new languages to the web.

Grain is a (brand new) functional and strongly-typed programming language. It has been designed specifically for WebAssembly; Grain does not compile to JavaScript. It is supported by a small JS runtime that provides Grain apps with access to the browser APIs.

 
### [WebAssembly and Blazor .NET – dreaming of sharing .NET code between the client & the server](https://szumiato.pl/2018/08/03/webassembly-and-blazor-net-dreaming-of-sharing-net-code-between-the-client-the-server/)

<small>SZUMIATO.PL</small>

There are many occasions when you might want to share server-side code with your client, for example form validation, template rendering, to name a few. This was one of the driving forces behind Node, allowing JS to run server-side.

This blog post explores how Blazor allows you to share the same c# code between client and server.

### [Life - A secure and fast WebAssembly VM](https://medium.com/perlin-network/life-a-secure-blazing-fast-cross-platform-webassembly-vm-in-go-ea3b31fa6e09)

<small>MEDIUM.COM</small>

Currently most developers are using WebAssembly within the browser - however the runtime itself was designed to be 'host agnostic', meaning that a WebAssembly VM could be hosted in all kinds of different environments.

This project is a stand-alone WebAssembly VM, written in Go, that could be used to run wasm code in anywhere you like - smart fridges, mobile phones, etc ...

### And Finally ...

A really interesting twitter thread about a [novel use of WebAssembly in the insurance industry](https://twitter.com/jxxf/status/1027358517462626304).