---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #18'
author: ceberhardt
---

## Latest News

### [WebAssembly Studio](https://webassembly.studio/)

<small>WEBASSEMBLY.STUDIO</small>

Regardless of which language you want to use, the WebAssembly tooling can be a bit of a pain to install. If you just want to have a quick play, this online playground is a great place to start. It currently supports C and Rust, but I'm sure other languages will appear in future.

### [A new experiment: Browser-based web apps with .NET and Blazor](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/webdev/2018/02/06/blazor-experimental-project/)

<small>MICROSOFT.COM</small>

WebAssembly support for C# started off as an open-source project called Blazor a number of months ago. C# is one of the more challenging languages to compile to WebAssembly due to the need for a garbage collector (which WebAssembly currently lacks). This blog post announces that Blazor has become an official ASP.NET project, with this backing it is likely to move a lot more quickly towards its goals.

For a detailed look at how Blazor works, I'd suggest [this post from Steve Sanderson](http://blog.stevensanderson.com/2018/02/06/blazor-intro/). They are targeting two runtime models, Ahead-of-time (AOT) compilation and an interpreted mode. Fascinating stuff!

### [Perspective by J.P. Morgan](https://jpmorganchase.github.io/perspective/)

<small>GITHUB.IO</small>

Perspective is an open-source project from the investment bank JPM (which is a little unusual for starters!). The library creates real-time pivot visualisations from streaming data, using WebAssembly for the number-crunching. Lots of [interesting discussion over on Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=16317124).

### And Finally ...

I'll leave you with a quote from Steven Sanderson:

*Whether it pleases you or not, web development is going to change over the next few years. WebAssembly will allow web developers to choose from a much wider range of languages and platforms than ever before. This is a good thing - our world is finally growing up!*
