---
layout: post
title: ! "Issue #90"
author: ceberhardt
---

### [Curve Fitting in the Browser using Rust+wasm in Angular](https://medium.com/@domie_domie/curve-fitting-in-the-browser-using-rust-wasm-in-angular-f9120ad89ac0)

<small>MEDIUM.COM</small>

This is a really good article where the author shares their first experiences of working with WebAssembly - in this case creating a tool that implements the Levenberg–Marquardt algorithm for curve-fitting. The article demonstrates just how polished the Rust / WebAssembly ecosystem is, with the author publishing their wasm module to npm using wasm-pack.

### [A fast zkSnark proof generator written in native WebAssembly](https://github.com/iden3/websnark)

<small>GITHUB.COM</small>

Yet more algorithmic WebAssembly ... zkSnark (Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Argument of Knowledge) is a cryptographic algorithm that could be useful for blockchain / cryptocurrency applications. This project presents a WebAssembly implementation of the algorithm. Interestingly, it wasn't written 'by hand', instead it uses a thin JavaScript 'layer' for creating WebAssembly modules, allowing macro-style constructs.

### [WebAssembly and SIMD](https://medium.com/wasmer/webassembly-and-simd-13badb9bf1a8)

<small>MEDIUM.COM</small>

SIMD stands for "Single Instruction Multiple Data", which are processor instructions that can perform arithmetic operations on multiple values simultaneously, which has obvious performance benefits. There has been a longstanding effort to expose this functionality to JavaScript via SIMD.js, however, this effort has stalled. The SIMD concept is highly compatible with WebAssembly and is currently on the roadmap. This wasmer team are helping push this feature forwards, and this brief article shares some initial results.

### [An Introduction to WasmerSharp](https://migueldeicaza.github.io/WasmerSharp/articles/intro.html)

<small>GITHUB.IO</small>

WasmerSharp provides .NET Bindings for the Wasmer Runtime - what this means in practice is that you can embed and run WebAssembly modules within the .NET runtime. Very cool!

### And Finally ...

A really interesting twitter thread exploring [real-world WebAssembly usage](https://twitter.com/JamesLMilner/status/1151824280914731008).
