---
layout: post
title: ! "Issue #83"
author: ceberhardt
---

### [Compiling C to WebAssembly without Emscripten](https://dassur.ma/things/c-to-webassembly/)

<small>DASSUR.MA</small>

Emscripten’s goal is to be a drop-in replacement for your off-the-shelf C/C++ compiler and make code that was not written for the web run on the web. To achieve this, Emscripten emulates an entire POSIX operating system for you, which results in a lot of (quite necessary) complexity and wasm / JS glue-code. This post looks at using the underlying compiler technology, LLVM, to create wasm modules without all the Emscripten overhead.

### [Introducing inNative - Run WebAssembly Outside The Sandbox at 95% Native Speed](https://innative.dev/news/introducing-innative/)

<small>INNATIVE.DEV</small>

InNative asks the question, "just how fast can WebAssembly go?". WebAssembly runs in a sandbox, within the wasm virtual machine. InNative takes a different approach, compiling wasm modules to native code, which is executed directly. And yes, it's fast! - I must admit, I'm not entirely sure what the use case for InNative is, but that doesn't mean it isn't cool!

### [Awesome Blazor](https://github.com/AdrienTorris/awesome-blazor)

<small>GITHUB.COM</small>

Awesome lists are community created and curated lists of projects, blog posts, sample projects and interesting information relating to specific technologies. This list focusses on Blazor, Microsoft C# to wasm technology. I must admit, I was surprised at just how long this list is! If you're interested in Blazor, you'll find a bucket-load of information here.

### And Finally ...

A post that looks at [mixing WebGL, D3 with a sprinkle of WebAssembly](https://blog.scottlogic.com/2019/05/28/drawing-2d-charts-with-webgl.html). We have all the tech!