---
layout: post
title: ! "Issue #114"
author: ceberhardt
---

## [Silverlight is back!](https://opensilver.net/announcements/introducing-opensilver.aspx)

<small>OPENSILVER.NET</small>

For those of you who may be unfamiliar with it - Silverlight was a Microsoft product that was a competitor to the Flash plug-in. It brought C#, and the power of XAML to the browsers. However, just as it was starting to gain traction, plug-ins fell out of favour (HTML5 won) and the product slowly died. 

OpenSilver is an open source implementation of Silverlight, based on Blazor / WebAssembly, that allows Silverlight apps to run without the need for the (now defunct) plug-in. Why would you want to do this? Well ... many enterprises and big corporates still have a lot of code running in Flash and Silverlight. Solutions like this hand them a life-raft, helping them keep their aged systems running.

## [Faasm](https://github.com/lsds/Faasm)

<small>GITHUB.COM</small>

Faasm is a high-performance stateful serverless runtime based on WebAssembly. We've seen a number of individuals and companies innovating with WebAssembly to create serverless 'back ends'. This one looks really interesting as it allows functions to share regions of memory and state.

## [Declarative WASM deployment for Istio](https://istio.io/blog/2020/deploy-wasm-declarative/)

<small>ISTIO.IO</small>

Istio is a service mesh that reduces the complexity of cloud deployments, they make use of the Envoy Proxy that allows you to add functionality to your mesh using WebAssembly. Wasm all the things!