---
layout: post
title: ! "Issue #109"
author: ceberhardt
---

### [Building Graphical Applications with Wasmer and WASI](https://medium.com/wasmer/wasmer-io-devices-announcement-6f2a6fe23081)

<small>MEDIUM.COM</small>

WebAssembly modules have no built in I/O capabilities, they cannot access the filesystem, open sockets or render to the screen. In order to do anything useful, a wasm module must communicate with, and direct its host (i.e. the browser for web embedding) to perform I/O on its behalf. The wasmer team are looking to drive WebAssembly adoption, and want to make I/O easier - which is why they have created I/O devices, a 'standard' interface for wasm modules which allows them to render to the screen.

### [WebAssembly: Key to a high-performance web, or ideal for malware?](https://medium.com/wasmer/wasmer-io-devices-announcement-6f2a6fe23081)

<small>THEREGISTER.CO.UK</small>

There has been a lot of negative press around WebAssembly since a study reported that the majority of websites they analysed used the technology for malicious purposes. This article is a brief interview with Andreas Rossberg, one of the creators of WebAssembly, where he addresses these concerns.

### [Announcing Experimental Mobile Blazor Bindings](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/aspnet/mobile-blazor-bindings-experiment/)

<small>MICROSOFT.COM</small>

Yet more Blazor news! This blog post announces a new experimental project to enable native mobile app development with Blazor. Microsoft already has a framework for creating cross-platform native mobile application using Xamarin. This experimental project combines the two. 

### [How to Use WebAssembly to Transform Images Without a Server](https://medium.com/better-programming/how-to-use-webassembly-to-transform-images-without-a-server-39db1a6e8c5)

<small>MEDIUM.COM</small>

A brief but very practical and useful blog post, using a WebAssembly build of ImageMagick, avoiding the need to send images to a server in order to apply transformations.

### And Finally ...

A [Kubernetes Kubelet written in Rust to run WebAssembly applications on wasm-based runtimes instead of a container runtime](https://twitter.com/petermbenjamin/status/1219145948804218880). 🤯🤯🤯