---
layout: post
title: ! "Issue #108"
author: ceberhardt
---

### [Explore WebAssembly System Interface (WASI for Wasm) From Your Browser](https://blog.jeremylikness.com/blog/explore-wasi-from-your-browser/)

<small>JEREMYLIKNESS.COM</small>

The WebAssembly System Interface (WASI) is a new initiative to define a standard mechanism for wasm modules to perform a wide range of I/O operations. The current WASI specification allows modules to access system timers, console and the filesystem - although expect this API to grow in scope over this year. This blog post creates a 'hello world' style example for WASI.

### [Debugging through WebAssembly is Impossible](https://erikmcclure.com/blog/debugging-through-webassembly-is-impossible/)

<small>ERIKMCCLURE.COM</small>

A slightly depressing title for a blog post! WebAssembly is a relatively new technology, and tooling support is pretty basic at the moment. However, we all expect this to improve over time. This post, from the author of InNative, an AOT compiler for running wasm on native platforms, describes some challenges that they feel make debugging impossible. 

### [Re-Using Angular Components In A Blazor WebAssembly Application Using Angular Elements](https://www.thinktecture.com/blazor/integrations/angular-elements-web-components/?pk_campaign=SMP&pk_kwd=Blazor&pk_source=Twitter)

<small>THINKTECTURE.COM</small>

Or as the author of this post puts it - Bridging the universes by integrating them JavaScript, Blazor, C#, .Net Core and wasm. I quite like that perspective - WebAssembly helps to bridge the universe! Practically speaking, this blog post provides a detailed guide for how to integrate existing Angular components (i.e. components written in JavaScript) with Blazor. I've not seen or considered this type of integration before.

### [Using gRPC-Web with Blazor WebAssembly](https://blog.stevensanderson.com/2020/01/15/2020-01-15-grpc-web-in-blazor-webassembly/)

<small>STEVESANDERSON.COM</small>

Another Blazor blog post for this week (this framework is certainly gaining traction!), this time looking at integrating gRPC, a more compact message format, into Blazor apps. It is a very good demonstration of how Blazor and WebAssembly allow you to bring existing tools and framework into your web apps.

### And Finally ...

According to QCon, WebAssembly is the [Technology of Innovators](https://twitter.com/WasmWeekly/status/1216630152899239936), we're on the cutting edge my friends!