---
layout: post
title: ! "Issue #115"
author: ceberhardt
---

I'm back!!!

It's been a hectic couple of weeks and I've struggled to find the time (or motivation) to pursue my interests in WebAssembly. However, things have started to settle into a rhythm once again - I've even found time to pick up my Atari 2600 / AssemblyScript emulator once again. Fun times!

### [WebAssembly meets Kubernetes with Krustlet](https://cloudblogs.microsoft.com/opensource/2020/04/07/announcing-krustlet-kubernetes-rust-kubelet-webassembly-wasm/)

<small>MICROSOFT.COM</small>

Containerisation with Docker and orchestration via Kubernetes has taken the IT world by storm; both technologies have become an essential component of modern microservice architectures.

A critical requirement of any container technology is sandboxing, processes running in one container must be isolated from those running in other containers, irrespective of what physical hardware they may be running on. The lightweight sandbox model at the very heart of WebAssembly gives the opportunity go create super lightweight sandboxed environments.

This blog post announces Krustlet, a Microsoft-backed project that explores the potential for WebAssembly within Kubernetes.

### [Stork - Impossibly fast web search](https://stork-search.net/)

<small>STORK-SEARCH.IO</small>

I really love seeing projects that make practical use of WebAssembly, and this is a good one. Stork is a search engine that is designed for static sites, i.e. sites where pages are generated by a build process, rather than dynamically produced at runtime. Stork, which is written in Rust, provides fast client-side search capability.

### [WebAssembly branching instructions, by example](https://samrat.me/posts/2020-03-29-webassembly-control-instr-examples/)

<small>SAMRAT.ME</small>

For those of you that like delving into the low-level features of WebAssembly, this is a good introductory post which describes how if/else and for loop constructs can be created with WebAssembly.

### [Running Golang on the browser with WebAssembly and TinyGo](https://marianogappa.github.io/software/2020/04/01/webassembly-tinygo-cheesse/)

<small>GITHUB.IO</small>

This post tells the story of exposing a Golang chess API project cheesse as a WebAssembly binary, compiled using TinyGo. A great write-up for any Go developer interested in WebAssembly.

### [Announcing Uno Platform support for Visual Studio Code](https://platform.uno/blog/announcing-uno-platform-support-for-visual-studio-code/)

<small>PLATFORM.UNO</small>

The Uno team are big investors in WebAssembly, using it to support C# / XAML apps which run natively on iOS, Android, and Web. In this blog post they discuss support for the super-popular VSCode editor.

### And Finally ...

A somewhat topical [simulation of the spread of COVID-19](https://twitter.com/ev_wilt/status/1242136082046685186), built using Rust and WebAssembly.