---
layout: post
title: ! "Issue #124"
author: ceberhardt
---

### [Why would you use WebAssembly to put scikit-learn in the browser?](https://towardsdatascience.com/why-would-you-use-webassembly-to-put-scikit-learn-in-the-browser-77671e8718d6)

<small>TOWARDSDATASCIENCE.COM</small>

Clearly a rhetorical question because the author does exactly that. This blog post looks at the various desired attributes of a deployment technology for AI / ML models. The author describes how that compile their models into a wasm binary which they can then run in the browser, server or 'the edge'. It's great to see this technology gaining traction in so many different fields.

### [Friendly Proof Of Work](https://github.com/gzuidhof/friendly-pow)

<small>GITHUB.COM</small>

In order to thwart spam bots many websites use CAPTCHAs, simple visual puzzles that are designed to ensure that a real human being is submitting a form. However, most CAPTHAs are a pretty unpleasant experience (as someone from the UK it can be very confusing being asked to click on images that contain a sidewalk?!). This project is a neat idea, a proof of work alternative, where the browser solves a computationally intensive puzzle. While this doesn't prove that a human is submitting a form, it does make it much more expensive to employ bots. Oh yes, and this project uses AssemblyScript compiled to WebAssembly.

### [Using WebAssembly modules from C](https://medium.com/@petersalomonsen/using-webassembly-modules-from-c-88a572cebd47)

<small>MEDIUM.COM</small>

The WebAssembly Binary Toolkit has a little utility, wasm2c, that can take a wasm module and transpile it to C code. This blog post looks at a practical example, a music synthesiser written in AssemblyScript, which the author has transpiled to C.

### [V8 release v8.4](https://v8.dev/blog/v8-release-84)

<small>V8.DEV</small>

WebAssembly is still quite a young technology, with lots of scope to improve, both in terms of new features and the overall performance of the WebAssembly engines. This blog post outlines a few recent improvements in V8 (Chrome), including improved start-up times, experimental SIMD support (Single Instruction Multiple Data - new instructions that improve WebAssembly's number-crunching capabilities) and a better debugging experience.

### And Finally ...

As Adobe Flash sunsets this December, now is a good time to reflect on its [rise and fall](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2020/07/the-rise-and-fall-of-adobe-flash/).